In February, 2026, a lot of headlines suddenly started appearing about this new AI thing called OpenClaw.  I built an OpenClaw AI agent to do my job for me.  I loved my OpenClaw until it turned on me.  It's incredible. It's terrifying. It's OpenClaw.  OpenClaw is a security crisis unfolding right now.  There is a lot of nonsense being talked about OpenClaw. Let's clear it up.  In this video, I am not going to tell you how to install OpenClaw.  In fact, I'm going to tell most of you to not install it, but you should still know about it.  What it is, what it isn't, and why people are talking about it.  Because even if you never installed OpenClaw, you are going to see things like it showing up in your life and your work very soon.  So, OpenClaw is a way to have an AI assistant.  Okay, you might say that sounds nice. What exactly does that mean?  So, OpenClaw is software you install first on your own device, your own computer.  Or, let's say you install it on a computer you own, but probably not on your main computer.  And it runs continuously in the background.  And what it does first and bear with me is it lets you take the chat applications you already use,  whether that's WhatsApp or Telegram or Slack or iMessage or Discord,  and connect that chat application to an AI model, like OpenAI's GPT or Anthropic Clawed or any of the other LLMs.  Now, first you might wonder, is that it?  OpenClaw is just something that lets you connect an existing chat application to an existing AI model.  And fundamentally, yes, that is what it does. It's called the gateway.  But it turns out that, yeah, that is a big deal because it starts to open up a lot of possibilities.  But there's a couple of things worth pointing out about this.  OpenClaw, by itself, is not an AI.  It's kind of plumbing. It is a way to connect other services and tools that we have.  Not just a chat app and an AI LLM, but then also your email, your calendar, your files or a whole bunch of other things.  So OpenClaw uses AI. It needs an AI to function because without it, it has no brain.  But by itself, it's not AI.  Now, this originally started as a personal project by a developer called Peter Steinberger,  who then made the code available to download over GitHub.  And he originally called it Claudebot.  But Anthropic, who make Claude, we're not happy with this increasingly popular project that sounded like Claude.  So they asked him to change the name.  And it was first renamed briefly to Moltbot and then to OpenClaw.  Now, you may occasionally hear those older names of Claudebot or Moltbot.  They're all the same thing. I'm not going to mention the previous names again. I'll just call it OpenClaw from now on.  It is an open-source project. So people can view the code. They can contribute to it.  It is free to download and install. It can run on macOS or Windows or Linux.  If you're nerdy, you can install it on anything like an old Android phone or a Raspberry Pi.  And when you first install it, you go through a setup procedure where you connect it to your messaging app of choice  and also your LLM of choice because until you do that, it can't do very much.  And during setup, you also give it a name.  I've called mine Cavendish because that seemed like a dignified name for a dignified assistant.  But at this point, after that initial install and setup, the basic behavior is going to seem very similar to using an AI chatbot.  Because to begin with, all it has is access to the information you provide during conversations.  It doesn't have access to your email or your calendar or your files or any other data unless you explicitly let it do that or connect to those tools.  But that typically is the next step you'd take is choosing what you want to give OpenClaw access to.  And this is where we hit the main problem that people have with this.  Because you need to give it access to those external services and tools in order for it to be helpful.  But by giving it access to those things, you expose yourself to risk.  Because if I hook it up to my email and then I tell my AI assistant, hey, clean up my inbox, what does that mean?  After all, a very simple way to clean up my inbox would be just delete everything.  Now, sure, there are ways to manage some of the risk.  You can work with very specific permissions, such as giving OpenClaw the ability to draft new emails but not send them, or to not have the ability to permanently delete anything.  Or you might give OpenClaw access to only specific files that are placed in a specific shared folder.  This is one of the core challenges of using any kind of AI agent is for them to be effective.  They need to have permission to do things autonomously.  But if they can do things autonomously, it might not be what you expected.  But beyond connecting them to sources of data like your email or your calendar or your files, there's also a growing number of OpenClaw skills.  You can provide extra functionality for your new AI assistant.  There's a website called claw hub that is full of skills for OpenClaw.  At the time I'm recording this, it already has 15,000 skills.  You can find everything from business-oriented skills like connecting to Trello boards or to connecting to Salesforce, to smart home skills like controlling your Sona speakers, and there's more being added every day.  And you can just chat with your OpenClaw assistant and tell it, go find this skill and install it.  And if it can't find one that does exactly what you need, you could even ask it to create that skill and code it itself.  Because one of the key ideas with OpenClaw is that it kind of starts to evolve.  It stores memory locally on your device and it continues to learn from your conversations.  It learns new abilities. It becomes more useful than more you use it.  But the fact that it can download new skills from the internet is another thing that makes security people very nervous because that's another vector of attack.  Where perhaps something malicious may have been inserted into that new skill or just something in the code that could lead to unexpected behavior or a data leak.  So for anyone who is right now thinking, okay Simon, still sounds kind of interesting, should I install OpenClaw?  Well, if you're even asking me the question, my answer is probably not, but you can prove me wrong.  So right now, the installation and setup is not user-friendly.  You need to be comfortable working in the terminal window and dealing with things like API tokens.  Also, don't install it on your main machine or your work machine certainly.  I'm running mine on an old laptop I wasn't using, and famously a lot of people have been buying Mac Minis as dedicated devices to run OpenClaw on.  And be very cautious about what you connect it to and how much permission you give it.  But what I think is actually more important than installing it is first just thinking about what you might do with it.  Because there's almost this cliche of people saying, okay, I've installed and configured OpenClaw, now what?  And even if you don't install it, spend some time thinking about how you might use it.  Browse skills on claw hub.  Because someone who says, okay, I know exactly what I'd like to use an AI assistant for.  I'm just not comfortable installing and configuring it yet.  That person is in a better position than a developer who would say, oh yeah, I could set it up in ten minutes.  I just can't think of anything I would ever ask an AI assistant to do.  So, should you know about OpenClaw?  Oh, hell yes, absolutely.  Because even before OpenClaw existed, we were already seeing this kind of functionality start to appear from the major AI vendors.  Chatbots that could run scheduled tasks for you.  AI that could access your files, tools like clawed co-work that can work directly on your own device.  OpenClaw is just the beginning.  There will be more things like this and very soon.  And the skill that is worth developing right now, whether or not you ever install OpenClaw,  is the ability to recognize tasks in your day-to-day work that you could hand over to an AI assistant.  And clearly describe what you wanted to do.  That is the skill you can start practicing it right now.