I'm going to explain as simple as possible what an earth open clause and don't worry  I'm not here to hype you up  I'm not here to give you a bunch of developer jargon. I'm going to explain this in plain English  Whether or not you should even care this exist or this is just a bunch of nerd stuff  Let's jump in welcome back here. Let's learn about this little lobster right here the lobster open claw  Why is it called open claw Corbin because it used to be called clawed bottom molt bot  What happened Corbin because the theropic was like yo stop using our branding and then they switched up  They realized molt bot was a trash name so they switched to open claw  TLDR of what on earth open claw even is put simply it is drum row please drum row please a 24-7 AI assistant  Now in the surface that sounds extremely lame and it sounds like we've done this before but in reality  There is a little nuance here if you use chat gbt if you use cloud if you use Gemini  You know how it's like you give input and then you get feedback and it's like a chat system like texting your friend  Like hey, what's up? And then you expect a response and then not to leave you on red like that situation  What open claw can do is we can actually set up a system where it's autonomous or essentially it runs 24-7 based off  Original task or its own quote-unquote soul. Don't make it complex y'all basically what a soul is in this context like  S.O. U.L  He's how it behaves and interacts with its environment  For example, you probably have a soul or do you have a personality that's your soul  I'm not gonna get too spiritual on y'all just think of it like how it behaves, okay?  So as we know of these kind of trends like people just blow this up  And they don't even know what they're talking about and they're like oh my gosh  Have you not used open claw yet? Like you're falling behind. I genuinely think you're not and to be honest of you  I really only see one use case  But let's just take like a very high-ceiling look of how we even use this tech  Am I gonna make a video of like showing you how to set up open claw possibly but as you see in the space  There's like thousands of tech youtubers now that can show you how to do that  I'm here to give you a high level of like do I even want to entertain this?  So first things first is open source which literally means it's free  I know it's kind of weird us software developers were nerds  We just give stuff for free because we think it's cool and we iterate off of it  But there's two ways you can use this tech local which literally means on your machine and when I say on your machine  I mean the laptop the desktop like all that what you paid for like that MacBook the Windows  Whatever you paid for like that it can run on it if you do a local LLM local LLM  Simply a model that only expands electricity that can run on your machine  I'll explain that a little bit more if it's that sonic confusing the point is that you can either run this on your computer  Which side knows why the most powerful use case or alternatively in the cloud so here's a situation though  It's a 24-7 assistant which means it can do things we've seen in the past  What are things we've seen in the past Corbin. Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. Did you know that open clock and look at your emails?  Did you know that you could text open claw in telegram and like have a conversation with an AI model go back and forth  So cool. I don't care and I say that not to sound harsh  But I say that because this is we could have already done this we could have already done all this  So who cares like it can look at you email like to respond to your email this tech existed  That's not why I care about open claw so in reality if you plan on using open claw for that kind of stuff lock in  There's other ways to do it  But you can still do it I guess like maybe long term it has a use case  But to be honest of you it is what it is in that situation like oh great. You have a telegram bot  Oh that telegram bot then access your emails like we could have done this already  So therefore when setting up open claw you have the ability to set up in the cloud  Should you set it up in the cloud if you have no development or technical experience?  I would advise no but who cares do whatever you want to do in life go smoke weed go drink  Just do whatever you want to do in life  But I'm telling you from a software engineer's perspective you probably don't want to do this  You're going to get a lot of tutorials like hey set up your clawed bots or sorry the open claw in the cloud  The reason you don't do this if you have no software development experience  Because of fact that this is extremely unsecure and one very specific pain point that I saw happening  Which I'm like that is sneaky  You could set up your open claw in the cloud and then if you gave it access to your emails the emails  Someone literally fished a person that had open claw access to their emails and what I mean by that is that  Okay, so this little AI bot has access to all your emails email email email email email when an email comes in  This AI model can read the email and then interact with the email if you give access to it  And then respond to the email well what happens when that email quite literally is a what we call a prompt injection  Where it could take control of your computer or alternatively more likely take control of your inbox  Delete your inbox like a bunch of crazy stuff now. Is this a fringe case?  Is this almost like fraud or something like that?  Yeah, like in reality most people probably won't even know your email or even know your open claw exist  But the point being is that there is risk associated when running this in the cloud  Who cares risk is life do it like I'm not here to tell you not to do it  I'm just telling you that this is real this is risk you have to ask yourself why is open claw now existing  Why is it open source why has no other big tech company ever released a product like this um because of the legal implications  Think about it. I am giving you a 24-7 AI assistant  And I even got into the very very cool stuff about this assistant  Which is you can quite literally give it access to your entire computer do things like screen record do things like take images  Do things like code do things like this can literally be you on your computer  That's cool. Why hasn't this been done before because you really think some company like Anthropics going to deal with the legal implications of literally getting access to your entire private  Information and doing stuff with it  I mean, they probably want to do that a little bit with the cloud bot right where you're just like chatting with it  But the point is that there are certain lines that big companies will cross  That is why a innovative thing like open claw that happened now happen through open source because ended a day  The onus of risk is on you  So if you want to be dumb and set this up in a way that you could really cook yourself  Proceed but we'll jump into how to set this up if you actually want to use it in a secure way  Let me go over a use case  That's a real use case of this so that can give a little bit more clarification of why you should use this  So I think the powerful reason you use open claw is using it locally  What I mean by that is that this unlocked a very big thing in the space which allows for the ability to run 24-7 now in theory  You could run 24-7 using the cloud and  I don't care. I want to run this locally and the reason running a model locally is so advantageous is because the cost is next to nothing  Why is it when I run an AI model locally on my computer?  I don't have to have the internet to talk to it. Why is it next to zero?  Because all you're paying for is the electricity literally the electricity to connect your laptop or desktop  That's all you're paying for when you use services like clawed and chat gbt that aren't open source and you're hating their back end  That's why it costs so much because they are premium charging you for them to run that model  It's literally hardware connecting to you and they get paid  There's a whole other rabbit hole. I could go down to where stuff's getting a little crazy when it comes to the open source world  Where open source models are becoming better than the paid models  But the point being this is where open claw is going to excel local  Let me caveat real quick before I jump into this little local situation because this is honestly the coolest part of open claw for me  personally and where I see the real use case actually happening  But you know all those posts like oh, I bought a max studio. There's some there's some value there  But if you're buying a max studio just to read your emails. What are you doing?  I guess you could it's all levels to this okay y'all  I think in reality most people what they say they can do now and oh my gosh  This is a breakthrough. You could have already done it  So let me just go over the stuff that you can't have done before open claw  Which is a thing called a Damon now. This is a Greek term that's used in software development  Which basically means a software program or application or operation that is always running on your computer  Great way to think about this is your brain. It's always running whether you're asleep whether you're awake whether you're watching this video  Always running this is insanely cool  Also, it comes from Greek Damon because it's like a spirit. Oh my gosh  The spirit is always moving around like the Greeks are crazy. I love Greeks 24-7 Damon  This is awesome. So what this is who it's simply in this context is an AI model  That's always operationally on now this only really has real value if the model is  Local on your computer because as we said earlier is cost you zero dollars now  What is a real use case of this it's probably a time but the real use case  I'm finding myself realizing and testing still is something I want to call aries  So what aries is is a fork of open claw. What is a fork Corbin?  You know what cursor is like you know the app builder cursor  And then you know there was another app builder that was open source called VS code  So what cursor did in the early days is they literally just took all that open source code  Duplicated it and called it cursor and then added layers. That's all I'm doing here  I'm taking the infrastructure of open claw and I'm adding layers and I'm calling it aries  What are those layers and where is the value that I personally see when it comes to this tech software development?  The aries is a real test and aries is something I need to see if it actually works because if it does it's cooked  The point of aries is taking the tech found up here a 247 Damon or just a model that's always on and having a create real software  This is a real use case by open claw that wasn't possible before open claw because now  We can quite literally create local AI models that communicate with each other forever and ever  I guess until you you couldn't theory just unplug I unplugged you and then it's off right  But open claw created a system now where you can essentially have AI models talk to AI models  And therefore planning can occur execution can occur and a bunch of implications is behind that aries itself  I'll do a deeper video if it actually works. I have a little article here. It's nice nice and beautiful  If you're familiar for me if you know this channel  I don't like doing videos like oh my gosh open claws here make a hundred K in a month 10 step guy pay me a hundred dollars  Like I don't care  I'm here to really give you real perspective from a real software engineer  So what I'm telling you is that I'm not going to jump the gun  I'm not going to say oh my gosh. I created a GI. I don't care  I'm going to do tests on aries  So I had to buy a max studio, which was like nine grand which had 512 gigs of RAM in order for me to do these tests  To put simply the tests are going to prove whether or not AI models can create real software  And not in the sense of like vibe coding  I'm saying they can create real software with no user input  EG you like I don't need to be there. I just give you a  Essentially a plan build xyz and it handles everything from there and out and it goes 24-7  Seven days a week 30 days a month 28 on February type of situation  So what does this mean for you if you're like Corbin?  I want to use this for my business. There's potential here  But this is so early stages  That it's going to require you to do a lot of experimenting a lot of iterating  So I suggest you if you like that kind of thing like this actually is cool to you  Yeah by a local environment like a very popular one is like people buying max studios  Buy whatever your equivalent is point being is that the local environment is where open claw is going to excel  The cloud yeah, you can do it  But it opens you up to more security risk  It opens you up to more costs because now you got to pay for stuff like the cloud is  I really just I'm looking at the cloud like this is the old way  If you really want to build a 24-7 AI assistant that functionally works and acts like an AI assistant  And you're not paying a gazillion dollars just to keep hitting the anthropic api endpoint  Local is the way. All right. Let's note to your open claw  TODR open claw is a 24-7 assistant that actually works and it can actually be autonomous  But my suggestion to you is go local because the cloud is just cooked if areas actually works  I am not only going to test it on a real software  Thumbio.com. I showed how to build in six hours  You can check out this channel, but the real software here's Thumbio  I'm going to plug areas into Thumbio and then see if it can handle PR requests  See if it can handle building out real features within a real software that is scaling right now  But on top of that, I'm going to see if areas can essentially create software's from scratch that are real  These are questions that need to be answered. These are questions. I don't have the answer to yet  Now if it's too much down the road you look at my acts  I'll probably say what the situation is here  But if this genuinely could do what I think it can do based off my test now and I'm 80% sure it can and I'll leave you  If this open claw might have been the inception of software going to zero in the sense that there's no other way to put it  Building software isn't going to be using an app to build software  If open claw and these tests are true building software is a system  What I mean by that is the environment itself is sole purpose is to build  Software no human input no back and forth no latency  Aries a fork of open claw you give direction a plan an execution model and it handles everything  If you're a nerd and you want to check out open claw I suggest you do it. It's really fun  But that just concludes today's video  So as you already know these style videos make sure you like and I'll see you in the next open claw  W or L